Previously on Stargate SG-1:
- Whom do you serve?
- (distorted) Anubis.
He is dead!
That was what you assumed
after you attempted to murder him.
His hand was exposed to the equivalent
of eight to nine grays of neutron radiation.
It's a lethal dose, sir.
I'm gonna miss you guys.
Yeah.
You too.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
The ship is Asgard. We are being hailed.
I am Thor, supreme commander
of the Asgard fleet.
Your presence here is a violation
of the Protected Planets Treaty,
and you must withdraw immediately.
I don't think so.
If you do not comply,
I will be forced to open fire.
Yes, I suppose you will.
You will be destroyed.
I am the great god Osiris,
and gods cannot be destroyed.
- You should know that.
- Very well.
Enemy ship is powering weapons.
Shields are holding.
The ship remains undamaged.
Our days of bowing to the Asgard
are finally over.
Major.
Sir.
I just wanted to inform you
that Colonel O'Neill requests
that SG-1 remain on active duty while we
try to find a replacement for Dr Jackson.
What are we supposed to do?
Keep working like nothing happened?
I understand how you feel.
With all due respect, sir,
I don't even understand how I feel.
We didn't even have a memorial service.
- We're not even really sure he's dead.
- And that's the problem.
What are we supposed to do, sir?
Wait and hope that he comes back,
or... or just move on?
When I was in Vietnam,
I saw my best friend shot down.
I know he survived.
I saw his chute open, radioed his position.
But I never found out
what happened to him.
His body was never recovered.
The Vietnamese never admitted
they took him prisoner.
For years I kept thinking that someday
he's just going to walk through the door.
So what did you do?
I learned to live with it.
- Unauthorised offworld activation.
- (alarm)
- What the hell's going on?
- Main power's down.
Phones are down.
General Hammond to the gate room.
Let's get up there.
(alarm continues)
Stand down.
- Freyr.
- Major Carter, General Hammond.
I apologise for our absence of late,
but our war with the replicators
has reached a critical stage.
- We might be able to help you with that.
- Yes, we received your message.
lf, as you say,
this android was responsible
for creating the first generation of
replicators, it may well prove invaluable.
However, that is not
the only reason I have come.
There has been an incident
with the Goa'uld.
An incident?
Commander Thor has been killed.
- Killed? How?
- The Goa'uld attacked a protected planet
and Commander Thor was dispatched
with the only ship available.
We expected the Goa'uld to retreat once
our presence was felt, but they did not.
The Asgard ship was destroyed
in the ensuing battle.
Is not Asgard military technology
far superior to that of the Goa'uld?
Their new shields are more
advanced than we believed,
and it appears they have upgraded
their weapons as well.
We can no longer be confident of victory
when facing superior numbers.
So, in other words, the protected planets
are no longer protected.
- Including Earth.
- Our ability to enforce the treaty
will depend greatly on the outcome
of our battle with the replicators.
However, in the meantime,
we do have another problem.
An Asgard scientist is stranded
in the research facility beneath
the surface of the planet in question.
We would like you
to mount a rescue mission.
Why us?
We have no ships available.
We understand you have
a Goa'uld cargo ship at your disposal.
Well, it isn't exactly
in perfect working order.
We managed to repair it, but...
We'll do it.
It's what we do, isn't it?
The research being conducted on this
planet is vital to the future of the Asgard.
We would be for ever in your debt.
Colonel. We need to talk.
I don't wanna hear it, Carter.
- You can't pretend this didn't happen.
- I'm not pretending anything.
This is the job.
We lose people all the time.
We're talking about Daniel.
What do you want me to do?
He's gone. We've got work to do.
Are you not all right, Major Carter?
I'm fine.
You continue to mourn
the loss of Daniel Jackson.
Yeah, I do. Tell me I'm not the only one.
I will perform the proper rituals
when the opportunity presents itself.
Until that time,
this mission must take priority.
Please, Teal'c. I get enough of that "way
of the warrior" crap from Colonel O'Neill.
Daniel Jackson has ascended
to a higher plane of existence.
Many Jaffa dedicate their lives
to achieving such a goal.
So I'm supposed to celebrate?
It is a great accomplishment.
We were a team, Teal'c.
No one can even begin to understand
what we went through together,
what we mean to each other.
So maybe Daniel has achieved something
of great cosmic significance. I don't know.
And to be honest with you,
right now I don't really care.
I'd rather have him back.
As would I.
We are approaching the Adara system.
Two motherships orbit the second planet.
We can't activate the cloak
until we're out of hyperspace.
For a brief interval they could detect us.
- How brief?
- A few seconds.
The odds of them spotting us are slim.
- How slim?
- Hardly worth mentioning.
And yet... you did mention it.
Yeah. I'm beginning to wish I hadn't.
Well, at least they're not shooting at us.
That's good.
We are approaching
the upper atmosphere.
- It's pretty thick.
- There is considerable turbulence.
You know, we should consider
putting another chair back here.
When you think about it,
it'd be much safer, wouldn't it?
We have arrived at the coordinates
given to us by Freyr.
- Nice view.
- (Carter) This can't be right.
The atmosphere
is over 80%% % carbon dioxide
and the surface temperature
is 420° Fahrenheit.
Ooh. Hot.
Yeah.
How are we to locate the Asgard facility?
Well, that was easy.
Ah, humans. Interesting.
Greetings.
I am Heimdall. I assume you were sent
by the Asgard High Council.
Not exactly.
Uh, Colonel Jack O'Neill,
Major Carter and Teal'c.
I have heard much of your exploits
on behalf of the Asgard.
Dr Jackson is not with you?
Uh, no.
In any case,
it is a great pleasure to meet you.
Where are we exactly?
Several hundred metres
beneath the surface.
Of course. We'd have to be -
the surface is uninhabitable.
The Goa'uld are unaware
of your presence?
I am monitoring their communications.
They know the laboratory exists, but they
have been unable to pinpoint its location.
Well, why don't we get out of here
before they find out?
I'm afraid we cannot leave.
- Why not?
- First we must rescue Thor.
I thought Thor was dead.
He is not. However,
his life is in grave danger.
He is a prisoner of the Goa'uld.
Commander Thor.
I apologise for the accommodations,
but we weren't expecting company.
You have committed
an act of war against the Asgard.
The response will be swift and decisive.
As swift and decisive
as your attempt to defend this planet?
After Thor's ship was destroyed,
the Goa'uld detected an escape pod.
They retrieved it before
it could disappear into the atmosphere.
How do you know Thor is alive?
I am able to scan the interior
of the Goa'uld mothership.
Wow.
I have located Thor's biosignature here.
Why not just beam him out?
My sensors can penetrate their shields,
but my transportation device cannot.
Can you detect Goa'uld life signs as well?
I can.
- Thor is not alone.
- The red dot indicates a symbiote.
So it's a Goa'uld or a Jaffa.
In all probability, Thor is being tortured
for information about Asgard technology.
With that knowledge, the Goa'uld
could easily come through our Stargate.
There wouldn't be anything
we could do about it.
I underestimated your strength.
That mistake will not be made again.
Perhaps not.
But next time we'll have
an even greater advantage.
We'll have learned all your secrets.
I will never surrender
my knowledge to you.
Not to me, no. Anubis himself
has taken an interest in this matter.
He's on his way here as we speak.
The Goa'uld is leaving.
Can you communicate with him?
Yes, I can.
Thor?
Thor? Buddy?
- Hey. How you doin'?
- O'Neill. I am surprised to see you.
Yeah. We're down on the planet with...
- Heimdall.
- Yeah, him.
Working on a way
of getting you out of here.
That would be unwise.
You must take Heimdall and his research
materials and leave immediately.
What, are you nuts?
We're not gonna leave you behind.
(Thor) More Goa'uld are coming.
I have been informed that Anubis
will conduct my interrogation.
All the more reason to get you out.
I will resist their attempts
to probe my mind.
I will die before
I give them any information.
But the very survival of the Asgard
depends on Heimdall's discoveries.
Sir, you've got company.
We're gonna have to pull you out.
All right, listen. I gotta go. But I'll be back.
- How's he doing?
- Well, he's fine for now.
Except for the fact
that he wants us to leave him behind.
- For what reason?
- I wouldn't mind knowing that myself.
Thor is concerned that if we delay,
the materials in this laboratory
will fall into the hands of the Goa'uld.
What exactly are you studying?
I am researching
the genetic history of the Asgard.
Yeah, now see, that doesn't sound
like something worth dying for.
That is because you do not understand
the gravity of the situation.
Feel free to enlighten us.
As a race, the Asgard reproduce
exclusively through a process
of enhanced cellular mitosis.
Are you serious? You have
no other means of propagation?
No.
- Carter?
- They're clones, sir. All of them.
Ah.
Well, that answers a few questions.
In fact, for nearly a thousand years
we have been physically incapable
of achieving cell division through meiosis.
Hm?
Sexual reproduction, sir.
Ah.
A thousand years?
It is not something
we usually discuss with other races.
This I understand.
Through cloning, we have achieved
a measure of immortality.
As each Asgard's body fails,
his consciousness is transferred
into a newer, younger version of himself.
Unfortunately, the lack of genetic diversity
has become a problem.
It's like making a copy of a copy of
a copy. Eventually there's deterioration.
We created a process
of controlled mutation,
which has helped us to avoid
complete genetic breakdown.
But we are at the limits
of our technical capabilities.
The truth is, the Asgard are a dying race.
- Have you located the Asgard facility?
- Not yet, my lord.
We waste time.
Lord Yu is mounting an offensive.
Our ships are needed elsewhere.
The planet's atmosphere generates
much electromagnetic interference.
Then send a squadron of gliders.
At low altitude their sensors
will be more effective.
The atmosphere is too thick.
It'd be extremely dangerous for the pilots.
And how dangerous will it be
when Lord Anubis arrives
and you have nothing
to offer but excuses?
I will dispatch the squadron myself.
Very wise.
If Anubis is gonna interrogate Thor,
he'll have to ring aboard the ship.
Once they lower the shields,
we can beam Thor out.
The shields will not be lowered.
They will merely adjust the frequency
to accept a ring transmission.
Then we beam up from
the cargo ship at the same time.
Once Anubis is on board, the frequency
will be readjusted and we will be trapped.
So we take out the shields
from the inside. There.
The shield-generator room
is located here.
You can use explosives to disable it
and I will transport everyone out.
Once the rings are activated,
the Goa'uld will be aware of us.
One of us stays here
and uses the Asgard scanner
to direct the others away
from any guards or patrols.
First I must complete
my preparations for departure.
OK. Carter, you stay here.
Teal'c and I will go up.
I must remind you
that time is of the essence.
This laboratory will not remain
undetected indefinitely.
Right.
Lord Anubis has arrived.
Sir, we found a ring room that's clear.
Stand by.
Roger that.
- Ring room has been activated.
- Now, sir.
Monitoring your progress, sir.
(beeping)
Unauthorised transport onto the ship.
Intruders?
The signal appears
to have come from the planet.
I am unable to determine
the specific coordinates.
Organise a security detail. Maximum
containment. I want them found.
Proceed to the end of the corridor
and take a right.
Hold up, sir.
There's a large party headed your way.
Which way?
Should we double back, what?
No, sir. There's a corridor ahead
on your left. You can duck in there.
They're almost there.
Uh-oh.
Sir, we've got a problem.
There are several Jaffa patrols
bearing down on your position.
- Where? What direction?
- From all directions, sir. Stand by.
There's no way out.
Perhaps a diversionary tactic
would be in order.
Carter?
Damn it.
Hey, guys! What's happening?
Nice.
- Heimdall says the way ahead is clear.
- Let's move out.
You are the one they call Thor.
I am Anubis.
As I have told your lieutenant,
I will reveal nothing to you.
This device... will be implanted
into your brain.
It will form a link between your mind
and the ship's computer.
Your knowledge will simply be
downloaded into our memory banks.
You will no doubt resist.
And you will no doubt fail.
The Goa'uld possess no such technology.
I think you will find many things
have changed since my return.
The intruders have
breached our perimeter.
How?
One of our patrols was ambushed.
Seal the lower decks
and divert coolant from the hyperdrive
into the ventilation system.
- The gas is toxic.
- Only with prolonged exposure.
- Shall I evacuate the engine room?
- The intruders may be monitoring us.
- We cannot give them a warning.
- But the engines will overheat.
The entire compartment
will be flooded with radiation.
- Many Jaffa will die.
- And be greatly honoured in the afterlife.
Carter?
This is it, sir. The shield-generator room
is on the other side of that door.
- There are six Jaffa inside.
- Only six?
(gas hissing)
Colonel! Teal'c!
Colonel!
- Are you sure they're not injured?
- Their signals remain strong.
They appear to have been taken
to some kind of holding cell.
- Well, we've gotta get them out of there.
- How?
- I'm not sure yet.
- In the meantime, we must do all we can
to keep the materials in this laboratory
from falling into Goa'uld hands.
What exactly are we talking about here?
Some DNA samples?
Not exactly.
- What is it?
- That is one of my ancestors.
30,000 years ago, a ship was launched
from the Asgard home world,
its crew placed in suspended animation.
There was a failure in the navigational
system and the ship was lost.
It drifted across the empty expanse
between our galaxies until it arrived here.
- We discovered it six months ago.
- And this is one of its original crew?
The only one
that was perfectly preserved.
He is from a time before our genetic
manipulation became irreversible.
So that's why he's so important.
You hope his physiology can give you
clues to stave off genetic degradation.
We kept the laboratory in this galaxy
to avoid the threat of the replicators.
Now we can no longer afford to wait.
It is only a matter of time before
the Goa'uld pinpoint our location.
I will require your assistance to adapt
the stasis pod to the ship's power supply.
All right. But when we're done
I want you to beam me back to the lab.
I'm not ready to give up
on Colonel O'Neill and Teal'c just yet.
I can't believe they took my watch.
Major Carter will soon have no choice
but to leave with Heimdall.
If she's smart, she's already gone.
In which case
our chances of escape are negligible.
Oh, I don't know.
All we gotta do is bust out of here,
take out every Jaffa
between here and the peltak,
commandeer the ship and fly on home.
I stand corrected.
O'Neill?
Thor? Is that you?
- Where are you?
- I am still in my cell.
However, my mind has been linked
with the ship's computer.
I am using the internal communication
system to synthesise my voice.
OK.
The Goa'uld are attempting to download
information from my prefrontal cortex.
It is only a matter of time before
they break through my mental defences.
Well, you know, love to help you,
but we've got our own problems here.
I am aware of your situation.
I may be able to rewrite some minor
subroutines in the security protocol.
- To what end?
- (rumbling)
Sweet.
I am growing weak. Further
communication will be impossible.
Hang tight. We'll get you out.
Colonel.
- Still with us, huh?
- Yes, sir.
Heimdall's got the cargo ship
prepped and ready to go.
He can beam us straight there, but we
still need you to get those shields offline.
Yeah, well, they took our C4,
so we won't be blowing any stuff up.
We have to find a control relay
and pull the crystals.
It'll only buy us a few seconds,
but that should be all we need.
Right. Which way?
I'll have to step off the holopad to check.
Try to stay out of sight.
I'll be back as soon as I can.
Report.
The battle with Lord Yu does not go well.
We request reinforcements.
That stubborn old man
simply refuses to die.
Dispatch the other ships.
Lord Osiris, one of our gliders
has detected an energy signature
beneath the planet's surface.
Do we have specific coordinates?
We do. But there is no way in.
Then we'll just have
to make our own way, won't we?
(Heimdall) What's your situation?
We're working on another way
to get the shields offline.
- What was that?
- I think the Goa'uld made my position.
You should leave immediately.
Just a few more minutes.
Come on, Carter.
I've got it, sir. Go down this corridor
and up two levels. I'll meet you there.
OK.
Carter.
There should be an access panel
somewhere along here.
OK, next time I'm the hologram.
- OK, we just have to pick the right crystal.
- Which one?
Carter?
I thought I heard something.
There's someone in here.
Agh!
- Major Carter.
- Osiris.
We have Colonel O'Neill and the shol'va,
so that just leaves... Dr Jackson.
- Where is he?
- Forget it.
Perhaps we should take them all.
Here's a thought.
Shields are down. Controls are offline.
Repair them.
Once more.
Where is Dr Jackson?
He's dead.
You're lying.
Go to hell.
Get us out of here.
Well done, O'Neill.
Thanks.
Thor? Buddy?
O'Neill. You cannot take me with you.
Why not?
The link between myself and
the Goa'uld ship has not been severed.
They will be able to track our position.
You must leave me behind.
All right, that doesn't work for me.
It's not an option. OK?
Lord Anubis, the Asgard prisoner is gone.
He will not get far.
We've cleared the atmosphere.
Bring up the hyperdrive.
Hyperdrive is offline. Cloak is failing.
Cloak is down. We have lost our shields.
We cannot sustain another hit.
Sir, we're receiving a transmission.
(Anubis) Your ship is defenceless.
You cannot escape.
Surrender now.
- Any ideas?
- We cannot risk capture.
We must destroy the ship ourselves.
Any good ideas?
We've got company. Three Asgard ships.
Sir, I'm picking up a transmission
to the Goa'uld ship.
This is Freyr of the Asgard.
The vessels you face
are far superior to the one you attacked.
Challenge us at your own peril.
Mothership's retreating.
It's over.
That's it?
Their examination of the android
must've yielded results -
it looks like the Asgard have
the upper hand against the replicators.
What about Thor?
They managed to remove the device
from his brain, but it may be too late.
Apparently he's lapsed into a coma.
If they knew more about the device
they might be able to help him.
They're studying it now towards that end.
Unfortunately, it's unlike anything
they've ever encountered.
Anubis clearly has access to technology
previously unknown to the Goa'uld.
- It would explain his rapid rise to power.
- Yes, sir.
All right. You're dismissed.
We're not that much
of a nuisance just yet.
Of that I am not so sure.
Hey. Heading home?
Actually, we were thinking of stopping off
for a bite to eat. Interested?
- Sounds good.
- General?
You three go ahead.
I've still got some work to do.
(soft whistling wind)
What was that?
Perhaps a malfunction
in the ventilation system.
Yeah, that's probably it.
Bye, sir. Have a good night.
subtitles by
+++ [ rdw & bundaboy 2oo2 ] +++
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org